Well we are to the point where we can actually begin thinking about materials and textures.
I've noticed that when people talk about materials and textures they oftentimes kind of interchange
the two and they really are two separate things.
Materials are what we use to create the basic visual properties of our 3-D objects.
In other words is the object red or blue.
How shiny is it.
Does it have transparency a reflection those basic visual properties are created through our materials.
But if we want to get more detailed and if our 3D objects need something like scratches or rust or lettering
on a sign those kinds of more detailed visual elements that are placed in particular parts of the model
those can be really only done through textures and a texture is a two dimensional image that is applied
to a three dimensional object.
And in addition I guess you can think of it like this we assign textures to materials and then we apply
the material to the 3D objects.
So we'll be working with each of those in turn.
But I think right now what we should be concentrating on is U-V mapping.
So what is U-V mapping UVM mapping is the process of creating a two dimensional representation of our
three dimensional object.
In other words if you can imagine taking an empty cereal box and cutting along the edges and then opening
the cereal box up and spreading it out flat on the kitchen counter that's kind of what U-V mapping is.
It allows us to take the polygons of our three dimensional object and lay them out flat so that we can
paint or apply two dimensional images.
So as I said if you wanted to paint or apply images of scratches or rust or actual lettering on a sign
you would need to use the map your object first so that you can apply those two dimensional images directly
to the two dimensional representation of your 3D object.
And I'm hoping this makes a little more sense as we move through the process but we kind of need to
focus on U-V mapping Now before we begin dealing with materials and textures.
The reason why is because you don't always know where you're going to need a texture and where you can
get away with just using a material.